_pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: about
title: About
permalink: /
# subtitle: <a href='#'>Affiliations</a>. Address. Contacts. Moto. Etc.
subtitle: Ph.D. Student @UW CSE.

profile:
  align: right
  image: prof_pic_Wei.jpeg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  # more_info: >
  #   <p>555 your office number</p>
  #   <p>123 your address street</p>
  #   <p>Your City, State 12345</p>

news: true # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: true # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: true # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---


I am a final year PhD student at the [Paul Allen School of Computer Science and Engineering](https://www.cs.washington.edu) at University of Washington supervised by [Su-In Lee](https://suinlee.cs.washington.edu/). Before my PhD, I earned a BS in Data Science and Big Data Technology at Yuanpei College, Peking University. Please see my [CV](https://qiuweipku.github.io/cv/) for more information.

My research interest involves utilizing machine learning to explore the mechanisms of aging and age-related diseases, as well as to conduct single-cell data analysis and genomics studies. Additionally, I am engaged in the development and application of Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) methods, aiming to enhance transparency and efficacy in biomedical and healthcare settings.

Commit message:

Revise profile and add research focus and lab openings
Updated the profile to reflect new position as Assistant Professor at Rice ECE starting January 2026. Added research focus and lab openings sections.

_pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: about
title: About
permalink: /
# subtitle: <a href='#'>Affiliations</a>. Address. Contacts. Moto. Etc.
subtitle: Assistant Professor @Rice ECE (start Jan 2026)

profile:
  align: right
  image: prof_pic_Wei.jpeg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  # more_info: >
  #   <p>555 your office number</p>
  #   <p>123 your address street</p>
  #   <p>Your City, State 12345</p>

news: true # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: true # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: true # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---


I am a final year PhD student at the [Paul Allen School of Computer Science and Engineering](https://www.cs.washington.edu) at University of Washington supervised by [Su-In Lee](https://suinlee.cs.washington.edu/). I will be joining the [Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering](https://eceweb.rice.edu/) at Rice University as an Assistant Professor starting in January 2026. Before my PhD, I earned a BS in Data Science and Big Data Technology at Yuanpei College, Peking University. Please see my [CV](https://qiuweipku.github.io/cv/) for more information.

## Research Focus
Our research focuses broadly on **AI for Biomedicine**, developing and applying advanced machine learning techniques to tackle fundamental challenges in biology and healthcare. We are particularly interested in:  
1. **Aging and Age-related Diseases:** Using AI to explore the mechanisms of aging and age-related diseases through multi-modality data modeling, aiming to uncover actionable biological insights and inform precision medicine.  
2. **Interpretable and Trustworthy Biomedical AI:** Developing explainable AI (XAI) methods to enhance the transparency, interpretability, and reliability of AI systems for biomedical research and clinical applications.  
3. **Foundation Models for Biomedical Data:** Leveraging foundation models to integrate diverse biomedical data modalities and address complex problems in biology and healthcare.  
## Lab Openings
<span style="color:red;">I am recruiting **one postdoctoral researcher** to start in **Spring 2026**.</span> If you are interested, please email me your **CV** and **research statement**.  

<span style="color:red;">I am also recruiting **two PhD students** to start in **Fall 2026**.</span> Please apply through the **Rice ECE PhD** or **Rice CS PhD** program and list me as one of your *Faculty of Interest*. Feel free to email me with any questions.  

<span style="color:red;">If you are interested in a **research assistant position** (undergraduate, MS, or PhD rotation), please email me directly</span> with your information.
